R.Tamilarasa vs T.P.Rameshkumar on 13 December, 2022
Author: G.K.Ilanthiraiyan
Bench: G.K.Ilanthiraiyan
                                                                               Crl.R.C.No.1332 of 2018
                                  IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
                                              Reserved on : 30.11.2022
                                            Pronounced on : 13.12.2022
                                                      CORAM:
                            THE HONOURABLE MR. JUSTICE G.K.ILANTHIRAIYAN
                                              Crl.R.C.No.1332 of 2018
                                        and Crl.M.P.Nos.1026 & 1027 of 2019
                R.Tamilarasa                                                       ...Petitioner
                                                           -Vs-
                T.P.Rameshkumar                                                    ... Respondent
                Prayer: Criminal Revision case filed under Section 397 r/w Section 401 of
                Code of Criminal Procedure, to set aside the order dated 16.08.2018 made by
                the Fast Track Mahila Judge, Namakkal, in C.A.No.22 of 2018, reversing the
                order dated 13.02.2018, passed by learned Judicial Magistrate (Fast Track),
                Tiruchengode, in STC.No.22 of 2017.
                                         For Petitioner     : Mr.S.P.Chokalingam
                                         For Respondent : Mr.B.Subramanian
                                                          for M/S.Dass & Viswa Associates
                                                          ORDER
This criminal revision is directed as against the judgment passed in C.A.No.22 of 2018 dated
16.08.2018 on the file of the Fast Track Mahila https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Judge, Namakkal,
thereby reversed the findings in S.T.C.No.22 of 2017 dated 13.02.2018 on the file of the Judicial
Magistrate (Fast Track), Tiruchengode, thereby acquitted the petitioner for the offence under
Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act.
2. The petitioner is an accused in the complaint lodged by the respondent for the offence under
Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act.
3. According to the respondent, on 17.03.2015, the petitioner borrowed a sum of Rs.7 Lakhs for his
urgent need and agreed to repay the same with interest at the rate of Rs.1.50 per month per hundredR.Tamilarasa vs T.P.Rameshkumar on 13 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/77507744/ 1and he also executed a promissory note in favour of the respondent. The petitioner bad been paying
the interest regularly to the respondent. When the respondent asked for principal payment, the
petitioner issued a post dated cheque on 15.07.2016 in order to discharge the principal amount of
Rs.7 lakhs and thereafter, the petitioner received back the promissory note which was already
executed by him. When the said cheque was presented for collection and the same has been
returned for the reason “Payment Stopped by the Drawer”. After causing statutory notice to the
petitioner the respondent lodged a complaint. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
4. On the side of the respondent PW1 was examined and Exs.P1 to 6 were marked and on the side of
the petitioner no one was examined and no document was marked.
5. On perusal of oral and documentary evidence, the trial Court found the petitioner not guilty for
the offence under Section 138 of NI Act and acquitted the petitioner. Aggrieved by the same the
respondent preferred an appeal and the first Appellate Court reversed the findings of the trial Court
and found the petitioner guilty for the offence under Section 138 of NI Act and sentenced him to
undergo one year simple imprisonment and imposed fine of Rs.5,000/- in default to undergo three
more months simple imprisonment along with compensation of Rs.1 lakh. Hence the revision.
6. The learned counsel for the petitioner would submit that there was no legally enforceable debt.
The alleged cheque was issued to one Ramesh Kumar, while borrowing loan from him, as security
and after discharging the loan the said Ramesh Kumar failed to return the same. Subsequently, the
said cheque was misused by the respondent to initiate proceedings under Section 138 of NI
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Act. No prudent man would return the promissory note which was
executed in favour of the creditor on receipt of the cheque. The alleged cheque was signed by the
petitioner and filled by the respondent. The trial Court rightly found that both were in different inks
and hence not filled by the petitioner. It shows that the cheque was issued for security purpose that
too to another person and it amounts to material alteration and as such, the offence under Section
138 of NI Act would not at all be attracted and the respondent failed to discharge his initial burden
as required under Section 138 of NI Act.
7. He would further submit that on receipt of the statutory notice, the petitioner categorically denied
the issuance of cheque by reply notice dated 16.08.2016 which was marked as Ex.P6. In the said
reply notice, he categorically stated that he had no acquaintance with the respondent and he never
borrowed any loan from the respondent. Therefore, the petitioner clearly rebutted the presumption
arising out of Section 139 of NI Act. Therefore, the trial Court rightly acquitted the petitioner and
unfortunately, the first Appellate Court reversed the findings of the trial Court for the reason that
the petitioner never denied the signature found in the alleged cheque and issuance of cheque itself
and presumed that it was issued for a legally enforceable debt. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
8. Further, the respondent had no source of income to lend such a huge amount. Admittedly, the
respondent is living in a rental house. Therefore, he would not have that much funds to lend money
to the petitioner. During cross examination, the respondent, categorically admitted that he is living
in a rental house and as such, the trial Court rightly acquitted the petitioner.R.Tamilarasa vs T.P.Rameshkumar on 13 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/77507744/ 29. In support of his contention, he relied upon the judgment reported in Manu/SC/0968/2022 in
the case of C.Antony Vs. K.G.Raghavan Nair, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held that
the cheque in question was given in a blank state to the complainant and he being a close friend of
the accused in collusion with each other misused the said cheque to defraud the accused. With
regards to difference in ink, the trial Court rightly found that the cheque was different from the ink
used for signature on the cheque. Therefore, he drew an inference that the case put forth by the
complainant was doubtful. It further stated that when there is two views are possible, failed to
render judgment in favour of the accused.
10. He also relied upon the judgment reported in Manu/SC/0502/2019 in the case of Basalingappa
Vs. Mudibasappa, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Court of India
held that the presumption under Section 139 of NI Act is a rebuttable presumption and the onus is
on the accused to raise the probable defence. The standard of proof for rebutting the presumption is
that of preponderance of probabilities. To rebut the presumption, it is open for the accused to rely
on evidence led by him or accused can also rely on the materials submitted by the complainant in
order to raise a probable defence. Inference of preponderance of probabilities can be drawn not only
from the materials brought on record by the parties but also by reference to the circumstances upon
which they rely. In order to rebut the presumption, the accused need not enter into the box.
11. He also relied upon the judgment reported in Manu/SC/0503/2008 in the case of Krishna
Janardhan Bhat Vs. Dattatraya G.Hegde, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held that an
accused for discharging the burden of proof placed upon him under a statute need not examine
himself. He may discharge his burden on the basis of the materials already brought on record. The
accused has a constitutional right to maintain silence. Standard of proof on the part of an accused
and that of the prosecution in a criminal case is different. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
12. In so far as, the source of income is concerned, the petitioner relied upon the judgment reported
in Manu/SC/1031/2014 in the case of K.Subramani Vs. K.Damodara Naidu. The relevant portion of
the abovesaid judgment is extracted hereunder;-
“9. In the present case the complainant and the accused were working as Lecturers in a Government
college at the relevant time and the alleged loan of Rs.14 lakhs is claimed to have been paid by cash
and it is disputed. Both of them were governed by the Government Servants’ Conduct Rules which
prescribes the mode of lending and borrowing. There is nothing on record to show that the
prescribed mode was followed. The source claimed by the complainant is savings from his salary
and an amount of Rs.5 lakhs derived by him from sale of site No.45 belonging to him. Neither in the
complaint nor in the chief-examination of the complainant, there is any averment with regard to the
sale price of site No.45. The concerned sale deed was also not produced. Though the complainant
was an income-tax assessee he had admitted in his evidence that he had not shown the sale of site
No.45 in his income-tax return. On the contrary the https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis complainant
has admitted in his evidence that in the year 1997 he had obtained a loan of Rs.1,49,205/-
from L.I.C. It is pertinent to note that the alleged loan of Rs.14 lakhs is claimed to have been
disbursed in the year 1997 to the accused. Further the complainant did not produce bank statementR.Tamilarasa vs T.P.Rameshkumar on 13 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/77507744/ 3to substantiate his claim. The trial court took into account the testimony of the wife of the complaint
in another criminal case arising under Section 138 of the N.I. Act in which she has stated that the
present appellant/accused had not taken any loan from her husband. On a consideration of entire
oral and documentary evidence the trial court came to the conclusion that the complainant had no
source of income to lend a sum of Rs.14 lakhs to the accused and he failed to prove that there is
legally recoverable debt payable by the accused to him.”
13. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondent would submit that though the petitioner
issued reply notice which was marked as Ex.P6, he simply denied the averments made in the
statutory notice and he did not even whisper about his defence that he issued cheque to one Ramesh
Kumar at the time of borrowal of loan. After repaying the said loan he failed to return the cheque
and the same was misused by the respondent herein.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
14. In fact, the petitioner issued stop payment to his banker not to release the sum. That being so, he
ought to have proved that at the time of presentation of the cheque he had enough funds to honour
the cheque. The petitioner failed to prove the same. The difference in inks would not amount to
material alteration. Section 20 of NI Act envisages the complainant to fill the cheque at the time of
presentation. There was a legally enforceable debt and as such, the complainant can very well fill the
cheque and presented for collection.
15. In so far as, the source of income is concerned, the petitioner ought to have rebut the same in his
reply notice itself and at least while making statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
16. He relied upon the judgment reported in 2022 LiveLaw (SC) 275 in the case of Tedhi Singh Vs.
Narayan Dass Mahant, wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India held that the accused ought to
have rebutted in respect of the source of income in the beginning itself namely reply notice and the
statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. Therefore, the first Appellate Court rightly found him guilty
and convicted him.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
17. Heard the learned counsel and perused the materials available on record.
18. According to the respondent, the petitioner borrowed a sum of Rs.7 Lakhs for his urgent needs
and he also executed a promissory note. Thereafter, he had been regularly paying interest and in
order to repay the principal amount, he issued a cheque. On the date of issuance of cheque, the
respondent returned back the promissory note since he promised to honour the cheque. On
instruction, when the respondent presented the cheque for collection the same was returned for the
reason “Stop Payment by the Drawer”. Though, the petitioner stopped the payment, he did not even
whisper for what reason it was stopped to honour. The respondent, while causing statutory notice
which was marked as Ex.P4, had categorically stated that;R.Tamilarasa vs T.P.Rameshkumar on 13 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/77507744/ 4“ 1. That you are very well known person to our client. That on 17.03.2015 you have borrowed a sum
of Rs.7,00,000/- from our client for your urgent needs and agreed to pay the same with interest at
Rs.1.50 per month per hundred on demands either to our client or his order and also executed a
promissory note in favour of our client.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
2. You used to pay the said interest amount every month to our client. Then on 14.07.2016 you
approached our client and you have issued a post dated cheque bearing No.000097, dated
15.07.2016 drawn from Lakshmi Vilas Bank, Tiruchengode Branch in favour of our client in order to
discharge the principal loan amount of Rs.7,00,000/- and received back the promissory note
executed by you in favour of our client.
3. As per you instruction our client presented the cheque for Collection on 15.07.2016 though Indian
Overseas Bank, Tiruchengode Branch, in which he is having account. To our client surprise the
cheque was returned on 18.07.2016 as “Payment Stopped by Drawer” in you account. Thought you
are well aware that you have already stopped the payment, just to cheat and drfraud our client you
instructed our client to present the cheque for collection. Hence your act amounts to commit fraud
on our client and indulge in cheating which is a crime punishable under Negotiable Instruments
Act.”
19. Though, the petitioner issued reply notice which was marked as Ex.P6, he failed to whisper
anything about the payment stopped by him and about his defence. He simply denied the allegation
and issued reply notice. In https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis support of his contention, he failed to
examine any witness and failed to produce any material evidence to that effect. In so far as, the
source of income is concerned, the petitioner failed to rebut the same by probable defence.
20. In respect of source of income, it is relevant to rely upon the judgment reported in 2022 SCC
OnLine SC 302 in the case of Tedhi Singh Vs. Narayan Dass Mehant, in which the Hon'ble Supreme
Court of India held that in the case under Section 138 of the NI Act, the complainant need not show
in the first instance that he had capacity to lend loan, unless a case is set up in the reply notice to the
statutory notice, that the complainant did not have the wherewithal, it cannot be expected the
complainant to initially lead evidence to show that he had the financial capacity. However, the
accused had the right to demonstrate that the complainant in a particular case did not have the
capacity and therefore, the case of the accused is acceptable which he can do by producing
independent materials, namely, by examining his witnesses and producing documents. It is also
open to him to establish the very same aspect by pointing out the materials produced by the
complainant himself. Further he must establish the case that the complainant has no source of
income even in the statement given under Section 313 of Cr.P.C.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
21. It is settled law that in the case under Section 138 of NI Act, Section 139 of NI Act provides that
the Court shall presume that the holder of a cheque received the cheque of the nature referred intoR.Tamilarasa vs T.P.Rameshkumar on 13 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/77507744/ 5Section 138 of NI Act, for the discharge, in whole or in part or any debt or other liability. This
presumption, however, is expressly made subject to the position being proved to the contrary. In
other words, it is open to the accused to establish that there is no consideration received. It is in the
context of this provision that the theory of probable defence has grown.
22. Thus, it is clear that it is only an after thought that the petitioner raised so many grounds in the
present petition without any substance. Further, the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, had
repeatedly held that once the execution of cheque is admitted, Section 139 of NI Act mandates a
presumption that the cheque was for the discharge of any debt or other liability. Further, the said
presumption is rebuttable in nature and the onus is on the accused to raise the probable defence.
The standard of proof for rebutting the presumption is that of preponderance of probabilities. In
order to rebut the presumption, it is open for the accused to rely on evidence let by him or he can
also rely on the https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis materials submitted by the complainant in order
to raise a probable defence. Inference of preponderance of probabilities can be drawn not only from
the materials brought on record by the parties but also by reference to the circumstances upon
which they rely.
23. In the case on hand, admittedly, the petitioner failed to rebut the same by any oral or material
evidence. Mere denial of issuance of cheque would not amount to probable defence and the standard
of proof for rebutting the presumption is that of preponderance of probabilities.
24. In so far as, the difference in ink is concerned, the first Appellate Court categorically dealt with
and found that the the hand writing are one and the same. Further, held that there is no any such
difference of ink in the cheque. Further, when the petitioner had taken specific stand that the
alleged cheque was issued to one Ramesh Kumar, and not to the respondent, he ought to have
examined atleast the said Ramesh Kumar to whom the alleged cheque was issued to rebut the
presumption. Therefore, the judgments cited by the learned counsel for the petitioner are not
helpful to the case on hand and this Court finds no infirmity or illegality in the order passed by the
Court below. https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
25. Accordingly, the criminal revision case stands dismissed. Consequently, connected
miscellaneous petitions are closed.
13.12.2022 Index : Yes/No Speaking/Non Speaking order ata To
1. The Fast Track Mahila Judge, Namakkal.
2. The Judicial Magistrate (Fast Track), Tiruchengode.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis G.K.ILANTHIRAIYAN. J, ata Pre-delivery order made in
13.12.2022 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judisR.Tamilarasa vs T.P.Rameshkumar on 13 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/77507744/ 6