State Of J And K And Ors. vs Dr. Shabnam Choudhary And Ors.
on 24 February, 2006
Equivalent citations: 2006(2)JKJ368
Author: J.P. Singh
Bench: J.P. Singh
JUDGMENT
B.A. Khan, C.J. (A)
1. Both these appeals arise out of a common order dated 28th May, 1998 passed by the Writ Court
and are proposed to be disposed of by this common order.
2. The J&K Public Service Commission (for short, PSC) issued notification No. 30-PSC of 1996 dated
31st December, 1996 inviting applications from permanent residents of the State for the posts of
Assistant Surgeon in Health and Medical Education Department in the pay scale of 2200-4000. The
PSC completed the process and made selections. The selectee Assistant Surgeons were appointed
vide Government Order No. 710-HME of 1997 dated 12th August, 1997 in the pay scale of
2200-4000 issued by the Health and Medical Education Department. These appointees were
directed to report to Director Health Services at Jammu/Srinagar respectively for further posting,
who, in turn, were required to post them in accordance with the guidelines issued vide Government
Order No. 635-HME of 1997 dated 17th July, 1997.
3. Government order dated 17th July, 1997 accorded sanction to the adoption of norms while
posting these newly selected Assistant Surgeons and, amongst other things, provided that Doctors
appointed against general category posts be posted in various hospitals in the order mentioned
therein. Sub-clause 5(f) of this order refers to the Hospitals of Jammu and Srinagar also. It is this
clause which is being invoked by respondents herein in support of their claim which aspect will be
dealt with later in this judgment.
4. It appears, that Director, Health Services, Jammu passed orders on various dates for placement of
respondents herein in Government Medical College, Jammu. This was followed by orders passed by
Principal, Government Medical College, Jammu, appointing these respondents as Senior and Junior
House Officers in the College and its Associated hospitals. Later, however, the Principal Government
Medical College, Jammu (appellant No. 3 herein) passed order dated 7th January, 1998 reverting
respondents "to their parent department, i.e., Health Department".
5. It is this order which is at the root of the controversy. The respondents, aggrieved by this order,
filed writ petitions before this Court challenging this order on several grounds, including (i) that the
3rd appellant (Principal, Government Medical College, Jammu) was not competent to send themState Of J And K And Ors. vs Dr. Shabnam Choudhary And Ors. on 24 February, 2006
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/1784380/ 1back to the Health Department as they were appointed by the Government; (ii) that they were
appointed in the Medical College and, therefore, there was no question of their being repatriated to
the Health Department; (iii) that only forty-two out of ninety-six appointed Assistant Surgeons were
picked up for being sent back to the Health Department and others were retained; (iv) that 3rd
appellant could not have repatriated them to the Health Department during election time when the
Model Code of Conduct was in force.
6. The appellants contested the respondents' case on the plea that none of the statutory or
fundamental rights of these respondents had been infringed or violated. It was submitted by them
that these respondents were appointed by the Director Health Services, Jammu and were
deputed/attached/deployed in the Government Medical College in November, 1997 due to paucity of
House Surgeons in that college and after availability of House Surgeons in the Medical College, the
3rd appellant had in the interests of administration, exigencies of service and to protect public
health, repatriated them to their parent department, i.e., Directorate of Health Services, Jammu by
order dated 7th January, 1998. It was also pointed out by them that they could be repatriated by
them at any time and even by the borrowing department. It was also claimed by them that the
respondents stood already relieved on their postings from the Medical College.
7. The Writ Court, however, overruled the stand taken by the appellants herein and proceeded on
the following factual/legal premise:
(i) that these respondents came to be appointed as Assistant Surgeons and that they
were appointed in the Jammu hospitals under the orders of
Commissioner./Secretary, Health and Medical Education Department by order dated
17th July, 1997;
(ii) that Director Health Services (second appellant herein) merely performed
ministerial act of issuing letters of appointment in compliance to Government Order;
(iii) that these respondents came to be appointed against available vacancies and that
the concept of deputation could not be attracted to their case as they had not been
borrowed from any parent department (Health Department); and
(iv) finally, that they could not have been sent back during the operation of Model
Code of Conduct when the election process was on.
8. The Writ Court, accordingly, allowed their writ petitions, quashed order of 3rd appellant dated
7th January, 1998 and directed the appellants to release their salary.
9. The appellants are aggrieved of the Writ Court judgment. Their case is that the Writ Court had
failed to consider the subsequent orders passed by the Government (Government Order No.
312-HME of 1998 dated 29th April, 1998 and No. 343-HME of 1998 dated 24th April, 1998) - the
first order directing the detachment of the respondents from the places where they were
deputed/adjusted and for their fresh posting in the Health Department and the second orderState Of J And K And Ors. vs Dr. Shabnam Choudhary And Ors. on 24 February, 2006
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/1784380/ 2permitting continuance of these respondents under the orders passed by the Writ Court. It was not a
case of repatriation ordered by the 3rd appellant which could be held to be incompetent. It is also
submitted by them that the Writ Court had failed to appreciate that these respondents were adjusted
because of the paucity of House Surgeons in the Medical College and its Associated Hospitals. It is
further submitted that the writ petitioners were appointed to the J&K Health (Gazetted) Service and
not to the J&K Medical Education (Gazetted) Service so much so that their salary was also drawn
from the Health Department and not from the Medical Education Department.
10. Learned Counsel for the respondents argued the case and has also filed written submissions. He
submitted that these respondents were initially appointed as Assistant Surgeons by the Government
and vide order dated 17th July, 1997 directions were issued by the Commissioner/Secretary, Health
and Medical Education Department to Director Health Services for their placement in the
department of Health and Medical Education Department which was one department at that point
of time. A reference to the directions so given shows that Government had directed the placement of
these respondents not only in Health Department but also in the hospitals in Jammu and Srinagar.
It is further contended that the J&K Medical Education (Gazetted) Service Recruitment Rules, 1979
which govern the Service in Medical Education Department though did not carry any post of
Assistant Surgeon but subsequently, after 1979 and before 1996, when the advertisement
notification No. 30-PSC of 1996 dated 31st December, 1996 was issued, a number of posts were
permanently created in the Government Medical College at Jammu and at Srinagar which posts can
be referred to as "extra cadre" posts under the J&K Medical Education (Gazetted) Service Rules of
1979. These posts are admitted by the Government to be the sanctioned posts of Assistant Surgeons
in the Government Medical Colleges.
11. It is also pointed out that even on the date of issue of the advertisement notification, i.e., 31st
December, 1996 the Health Service was a distinct Service than the Medical Education Service and
yet the advertisement notification to which the respondents responded invited applications for both
Health and Medical Education Services which also brought out the Government's intention to make
appointments of respondents in the Medical Education Service and not Health Service. It is also
asserted that these respondents were appointed by the Principal Government Medical College and
not Director, Health Services, and therefore, there was no occasion to repatriate them to the Health
Department.
12. Looking at the matter in its correct perspective it appears to us that the whole matter had been
messed up which needs to be put straight by ' proper understanding of the events and legal position
in terms of the statutory rules which governed the service conditions of the respondents-writ
petitioners.
13. The record shows that a special recruitment drive was launched for the newly created posts of
Assistant Surgeons, numbering 230. Consequently, notification No. 30-PSC of 1996 dated 31st
December, 1996 was issued by the Public Service Commission inviting applications for the posts of
Assistant Surgeon in the Health and Medical Education Department. After the selection was made,
Government issued order No. 710-HME of 1997 dated . 12th August, 1997 appointing the selected
candidates to the post of Assistant Surgeons. It, at the same time, issued Government Order No.State Of J And K And Ors. vs Dr. Shabnam Choudhary And Ors. on 24 February, 2006
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/1784380/ 3635-HMV of 1997 dated 17th July, 1997 providing guidelines for their posting and placement. This
order provided the mode of posting and placement for reserved as also the general category posts.
Clause 5 of this order provides that the Doctors appointed against general category posts shall be
posted in various hospitals of Jammu and Kashmir also. It seems that pursuant to this order the
Director, Health Services, Jammu issued order placing these respondents in Government Medical
College, Jammu. His orders were followed by the orders issued by Principal, Government Medical
College, Jammu (3rd appellant) "appointing these respondents as Senior and Junior House
Surgeons" in the College and Associated Hospitals and not against the post of Assistant Surgeons
because, admittedly, there was no post of Assistant Surgeon available either in the Medical College
or its Associated Hospitals. This deployment/adjustment at Jammu is said to have been made to
meet the shortage of House Surgeons in the Medical College, Jammu. However, according to the
appellants when the requisite House Surgeons became available in the College, this arrangement
was terminated and Government Order No. 312-HME of 1998 dated 20th April, 1998 was issued
detaching these respondents and directing their placement in the Health Services.
14. Viewed in this scenario, the Writ Court appears to have proceeded on a wrong premise
altogether. Because it was a case of deployment/adjustment - pure and simple - And not a case of
deputation as was erroneously projected in the stand taken by appellants against respondents' writ
petition and on which the Writ Court had also proceeded overlooking the terms of Government
Order No. 312-HME of 1998 dated 20th April, 1998 which had terminated the arrangement by
which respondents had come to be deployed/adjusted in the Medical College. Therefore, there was
hardly any need of examining the concept of deputation by the Writ Court and to allow the
respondents' writ petitions holding that the respondents were not on deputation and thus could not
be repatriated. Learned Single Judge has misconstrued the orders issued by the appellants from
time to time to treat the respondents as members of the Education Gazetted Service.
15. One may agree that the order dated 7th January, 1998 issued by 3rd appellant was neither here
nor there and was rather incompetent but it cannot be ignored that appellant State had passed
Government Order No. 312 of 1998 dated 20th April, 1998 to set the records straight. It is this order
that would clinch the issue rendering the action of 3rd appellant (Principal, Government Medical
College, Jammu) as inconsequential. In fact, his order dated 7th January, 1998 seems to have been
passed in ignorance of the fact situation that he had deployed the respondents as House Surgeons
and was drawing their salary from the Directorate of Health Services, Jammu and was not paying
them from the Medical College or Associated Hospitals' budget.
16. The Writ Court has fallen in error in holding that these respondents were appointed against the
available vacancies of Assistant Surgeons in the Medical College, Jammu when admittedly no such
posts or vacancies existed in the Medical College. On the contrary these respondents were appointed
as Senior and Junior House Officers by the orders of 3rd appellant dated 30th December, 1997. Had
they been appointed against any available post of Assistant Surgeon in the Medical College, the
question of drawal of their salary from the budget of Directorate, Health Services, Jammu would not
have arisen. Moreover, these respondents on their appointment had to belong to a particular
service, for they cannot be seen wandering in the no man's land. They must either belong to the
Gazetted Health Service or to the Gazetted Medical Education Service which are, admittedly, twoState Of J And K And Ors. vs Dr. Shabnam Choudhary And Ors. on 24 February, 2006
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/1784380/ 4different services.
17. It is nobody's case that the post of Assistant Surgeon is borne on the cadre of J&K Medical
Education Gazetted Service. If that be so, which it is, then they cannot claim to be belonging to the
Medical Education Gazetted Service. Nor can their deployment/placement in the Medical College or
its Associated Hospitals temporarily for meeting the shortage of House Officers/Surgeons confer
any right on them to become the members of that Service. As against this the post of Assistant
Surgeon is admittedly created in the Health Service and their selection and appointment to the post
would make them belong to that Service alone.
18. We are also not impressed by the submission made by the learned Counsel for respondents, Mr.
Sunil Sethi, claiming that the Government had the intention of appointing these respondents to the
Medical Education Gazetted Service. The question of intention is foreign to the service
jurisprudence. There is nothing on records to show that either the post of Assistant Surgeon was
borne on the cadre of J&K Medical Education (Gazetted) Service or was available in Medical
College, Jammu or that respondents were appointed to the post in the College or its Associated
Hospitals.
19. Mr. Sethi's claim that they were appointed by the 3rd appellant, Principal, Government Medical
College, Jammu to the post of House Surgeon is wholly wrong. This is negatived by this appellant's
order dated 30th December, 1997 which adjusts them only as "Senior and Junior House Officers" in
the College. This order does not appoint them to the post of Assistant Surgeon for which they were
selected and appointed. The issue of 3rd appellant's order dated 7th January, 1998 having been
issued during Model Code of Conduct is irrelevant for our purposes now that much water has flown
down the river.
20. All issues raised in support of the writ petitions having failed, these appeals are allowed and the
impugned Writ Court judgment dated 28th May, 1998 set-aside. Respondents' writ petitions are
dismissed leaving appellants free to pass appropriate orders for their placement/deployment back
home in the interests of administration to the J&K Medical Gazetted Service.
21. While parting, we are constrained to observe that appellants cannot resort to pick and choose
and treat the similarly situated differently. They must apply the same yardstick to all those who are
equally circumstanced with the respondents. Though appellants' administrative exigency may
demand retention of some doctors at the College but this would again create an impression of
selective and subjective action, which cannot be countenanced, and which would generate further
litigation. The State appellant should, therefore, be well advised to adopt a uniform policy of sending
back similarly situated or placed Assistant Surgeons to the field in the Health Service Department
and pass appropriate orders in accordance with these directions to avoid any more misgivings on
the subject.State Of J And K And Ors. vs Dr. Shabnam Choudhary And Ors. on 24 February, 2006
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/1784380/ 5