Durgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi
Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Author: D.Bharatha Chakravarthy
Bench: D.Bharatha Chakravarthy
                                                                                    A.S.No.397 of 2010
                                  IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS
                                          Judgment Reserved on : 02.12.2022
                                         Judgment Pronounced on : 14.12.2022
                                                     CORAM :
                       THE HON'BLE MR.JUSTICE D.BHARATHA CHAKRAVARTHY
                                                 A.S.No.397 of 2010
                                                and M.P.No.1 of 2010
                    1. Durgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam
                       a specific endowment to
                       Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar Nataraj Perumal
                       Durgaiamman Group Temples,
                       Represented by K.Jeevanandam
                    2. K.Jeevanandam                                .. Appellants
                                                       Versus
                    1. Idols of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar Natarja Perumal
                       Durgaiamman Group Temples,
                       Rep. by its Executive Officer
                    2. Govindarajulu                            .. Respondents
                    Prayer : Appeal Suit filed under Section 96 and Or XLI R 1 and 2 of Civil
                    Procedure Code to set aside the judgment and decree, dated 11.06.2008
                    made in O.S.No.4769 of 2006 on the file of the learned VI Additional
                    Judge, City Civil Court at Chennai and allow the above Appeal Suit.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
                    1/22Durgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 1                                                                                    A.S.No.397 of 2010
                                    For Appellants    : M/s.P.Priyanka
                                                 for M/s.R.Gouri
                                    For Respondents : Mr.S.D.Ramalingam
                                                Mr.D.R.Sivakumar, for R1
                                                : R2 - Exparte
                                                      JUDGMENT
A. The Appeal Suit :
This Appeal Suit is filed against the judgment and decree, dated 11.06.2008 passed
by the learned VI Additional Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai in O.S.No.4769 of
2006, in and by which, the suit filed by the plaintiff, to declare that the plaintiff
temple will be entitled to manage and administer the Durgai Lakshmi Kalyana
Mandapam and to direct the defendants to quit and deliver vacant possession of the
schedule properties and for verifying the accounts and rents, was decreed by the Trial
Court.
B. The Plaint :
2. The case of the plaintiff is that, it is one of the oldest temple situated at No.8,
Manali Chinniah Garden II Street, Old Washermanpet, Chennai - 600 021. For the
maintenance of the temple, the then Trustees, with the help of the public and
collections made from the devotees, had put https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis up a
Kalyana Mandapam in the temple premises itself in the first floor as a specific
endowment for the temple. The same is rented out for weddings and other functions
and the income derived there from was utilised by the temple for its maintenance.
The second defendant's father, D.Kandaswamy Chetty and one D.Munuswamy Chetty
were declared as the Hereditary Trustees of the temple. Subsequently, by order,
dated 12.12.1974, with the consent of the then Trustees, an Executive Officer was also
appointed to be incharge of the day to day administration and properties of the
temple.
While so, the Deputy Commissioner, H.R. & C.E., by order in O.A.No.37 of 1987, dated 27.02.1995,
had declared that the said Kalyana Mandapam as a specific endowment within the meaning of
Section 6(19) of The Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959. The then
Trustees of the temple namely, D.Kandaswamy Chettiar and D.Munuswamy Chettiar, had also filed
O.A.No.34 of 1985 before the Deputy Commissioner, H.R. & C.E., for a declaration that they are the
founding Hereditary Trustees of the said Durgai Lakshmi Thirumana Mandapam and the same was
dismissed by an order, dated 27.02.1995. After the death of the said D.Kandaswamy Chettiar, the
second defendant was appointed as the Hereditary Trustee of the temple. In the place of the otherDurgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 2Hereditary Trustee, D.Munuswamy https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Chettiar, the third defendant
was appointed as the Hereditary Trustee of the temple. Being the Trustees, they also looked after the
endowment attached to the temple. However, the collections made and the income derived from the
said Kalyana Mandapam have not been accounted and the monies were not handed over to the
temple and has been personally utilised by the said K.Jeevanandam and Govindarajulu. Therefore,
the Executive Officer sent a communication, dated 20.10.2004 to the said K.Jeevanandam asking
him to hand over all the documents and accounts relating to the Mandapam, but, however, the said
K.Jeevanandam neither cared to reply nor handed over the charges. The Mandapam, at the time of
filing of the suit, was deriving atleast a minimum of Rs.10,000/- per month. Therefore, the suit was
filed for declaration that the plaintiff is entitled to manage and administer the endowment
more-fully described in the schedule and attached to the temple; secondly, directing the defendants
to deliver vacant possession of the said Mandapam more-fully described in the schedule; to appoint
an Advocate Commissioner to take accounts of the income by way of collection of rents from the suit
property and the expenditure incurred and to arrive at the amounts due to the defendants by the
plaintiff and to pass a decree against such sum which would be found due.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis C. The Written Statement :
3. The second defendant, for himself and also representing the first defendant
endowment, filed a written statement contesting the suit. It is their contention that
the suit is not maintainable. The second defendant was residing separately and he did
not know about the earlier proceedings initiated by his father. As a Hereditary
Trustee, from the date of the death of his father, he has been managing the affairs of
the said Kalyana Mandapam. As against the earlier order, denying the rights to his
father, the second defendant has preferred appeal to the Commissioner and the same
is pending. There is no cause of action for the plaintiff to file the present suit.
D. The Issues :
4. On the said pleadings, the Trial Court framed the following issues:-
1) Whether the suit is maintainable?
2) Whether the order made in O.A.No.34/95 in O.A.No.37/85 by the Deputy
Commissioner of HR&CE is final one?
3) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to any declaration against the defendant?
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
4) Whether the second defendant is hereditary trustee of the first defendant?
5) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to recovery of possession from the second defendant?Durgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 36) Whether the plaintiff is entitled to get any damages? If so what quantum?
7) Whether the defendants 1 and 2 are liable to render accounts to the plaintiff?
8) To what other reliefs the plaintiff is entitled to?
E. The Evidence :
5. On the said issues, the parties let in evidence. One M.Baskaran was examined on
behalf of the plaintiff temple and Exs.A-1 to A-7 were marked. On behalf of the
defendants, the second defendant examined himself as D.W.1 and Exs.B-1 to B-4
were marked.
F. The Findings of the Trial Court :
6. The Trial Court, thereafter, proceeded to consider the case of the parties and by a
judgment, dated 11.06.2008, held that the Executive Officer has power to file the suit
on behalf of the temple. The Trial Court found https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis that
by the earlier order dated 27.02.1995, the first defendant endowment is declared as a
specific endowment under Section 16(9) of The Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Act, 1959. The defendants, except producing water tax
receipt and property tax receipt and Ex.B-4 rental bill book, did not file any other
document to show what is the actual income of the Mandapam from the year 1995 to
2006. Even after the filing of the suit, the defendants did not file any document to
show that any appeal was pending. Taking into account the admission of the
defendants that daily cash was not properly deposited into the bank, the Trial Court
held that the second defendant is not properly maintaining the endowment and came
to the conclusion that there was mismanagement and therefore, the plaintiff temple
is entitled for the reliefs as prayed for and decreed the suit.
Aggrieved by the same, the present Appeal Suit is filed before this Court. G. The Submissions :
7. Heard M/s.P.Priyanka, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants
and Mr.S.D.Ramalingam, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the first
respondent. The second respondent remained ex parte.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
8. M/s.P.Priyanka, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, would submit that the
suit filed by the Executive Officer is not maintainable. For the said proposition, she relied upon a
judgment of a Division Bench of this Court in Sri Arthanaeeswarar of Tiruchengode by its present
Executive Officer, Sri Sabapathy Vs. T.M.Muthusamy Padayachi, etc. & Ors.1 and submitted that the
said precedent is followed in judgments of this Court in S.Radhabai Vs. Bharani Abishheka Kattalai
attached to A/M Arunachaleswarar Thirukoil, Rep. by its Deputy Commissioner/Executive OfficerDurgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 4(S.A.No.1224 of 2007, judgment dated 13.08.2021); in E.V.Mohan Vs. Arulmigu Sengaluneer
Vinayakar and Koluraman Thirukoil by its Executive Officer/Manager (C.R.P.(NPD) No.2966 of
2007, judgment dated 23.04.2018); in V.Kuppusamy Vs. A/M.Prasanna Vinayagar Thirukoil
Represented by its Executive Officer Pudupet, Chennai-14. (C.R.P.(NPD)No.2112 of 2014, judgment
dated 01.11.2017). Thus, she would contend that it has been consistently held that the suit filed by
the Executive Officer without a special authorisation by the Commissioner is not maintainable.
Admittedly, in this case, there is no express authorisation and therefore, the suit is liable to be
dismissed. 1 2002 SCC OnLine Mad 514 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
9. The learned Counsel would further submit that when the second defendant had produced Ex.B-4,
rental bill book and from the said bill book it is clear that the rental amounts were being deposited
into the account of the temple. Therefore the learned Trial Judge ought not to have held that there is
mismanagement and ought to have seen that the suit property is properly managed. The second
defendant has also filed an appeal in respect of the Order declining the prayer of his father for
appointment as hereditary trustee specifically in respect of the endowment, which is also pending
and therefore, the Trial Court ought not to have directed delivery and possession of the suit property
even before the decision in the said appeal.
10. Per contra, Mr.S.D.Ramalingam, the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the temple, with
regard to maintainability would submit that while it is true that in Sri Arthanaeeswarar (cited supra)
the Division Bench held that suit filed by the Executive Officer without express authorisation of the
commissioner is not maintainable but the same was with reference to the factually context
thereunder. Subsequently, another Division Bench of this Court, in A.N.Kumar Vs. Arulmighu
Arunachaleswarar Devasthanam Thiruvannamali, rep. by its Executive
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Officer (Asst. Commissioner) Thiruvannamalai and Ors.2, has
held that it is the duty of the Executive Officer to file the suit against such erring parties and protect
the interests of the temple. As a matter of fact, the said judgment is also followed by a learned Single
Judge of this Court in M.Selvaraj Vs. Arulmigu Arunachaleswarar Thirukkoil Represented by its
Assistant Commissioner/Executive Officer, Arulmighu Arunachaleswarar Temple Premises,
Thiruvannamalai (S.A.No.768 of 2015, judgment dated 14.03.2022).
11. This apart, he would submit that the Government of Tamil Nadu had subsequently framed rules
namely, The Conditions for Appointment of Executive Officers Rules, 2015, in and by which, the
Executive Officer has been expressly authorised to represent and also file suits for and on behalf of
the temple. The constitutional validity of the said rules came to be challenged in M/s.Temple
Worshippers Society Rep. by its President T.R.Ramesh Vs. Government of Tamil Nadu3 and the
Division Bench upheld the validity of the said rules. In view thereof, it cannot be contended that the
suit by the Executive Officer was not maintainable. The learned 2 2011-2-L.W. 1 3 2017 SCC OnLine
Mad 7178 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Counsel also relied upon a judgment of a learned Single
Judge of this Court in Mohammed Rafiq and Ors. Vs. Arulmigu Pasupatheeswarar Swamy Koil
Avoor4, whereunder, the suit filed by the Executive Officer was held to be maintainable on the
ground that any person interested (which includes a devotee) can set the law in motion as per the
scheme of the Act.Durgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 512. The learned Counsel would submit that the first defendant, endowment, is a Kalyana
Mandapam, which is on the first floor of the temple. No proper accounts were maintained and the
second and the third defendants neither submitted the accounts nor the monies were properly
deposited in the bank account. Therefore, the Trial Court found that there is mismanagement and in
view thereof, the second and the third defendants acted against the interests of the temple and
therefore, can no longer be permitted to continue to manage the endowment and therefore, the Trial
Court has rightly decreed the suit.
H. Points for consideration :
4 MANU/TN/6840/2020 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis
13. Upon considering the submissions made on either side and perusing the material records of the
case, the following questions arise for consideration:-
(i) Whether the suit filed by the Executive Officer on behalf of the temple is
maintainable in the absence of a specific authorisation from the Commissioner?
(ii) Whether the second and the third defendants mismanaged the endowment and
therefore are liable to quit and deliver vacant possession to the plaintiff temple?
I. Question No.1 :
14. It is useful to extract paragraph Nos.19, 20 and 21 of the judgment in Sri Arthanaeeswarar of
Tiruchengode by its present Executive Officer, Sri Sabapathy Vs. T.M.Muthusamy Padayachi, etc. &
Ors. (cited supra) which read as follows:-
" 19. Maintainability of the suits :
The Executive Officer's suit is filed by the then Executive Officer. The case of the
Executive Officer is that after his appointment in the year 1970, he came to know,
after enquiry, that the suit property is a trust property and that the various registered
documents obtained are colourable https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis and not
binding on the temple. Though the question as to the competency of the Executive
Officer to file the suit was not raised in the written statements, the question was
raised in the course of argument that under the H.R. & C.E. Act, the Board of
Trustees alone have been empowered to sue and be sued and that before filing the
suit, enquiries have been made by the authorities of the H.R. & C.E. Department and
it was found that there was no Nandavanam in the suit property. Rejecting the
objection of the plaintiffs, the trial court proceeded to consider the question of
maintainability as the question of law and found that the Executive Officer had no
authority to file the suit and that he cannot invoke Article 96 of the Limitation Act.
The Supreme Court, in State of Rajasthan Vs. Rao Raja Kalyan Singh
(MANU/SC/0558/1971), has held that the plea of maintainability of a suit isDurgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 6essentially a legal plea. If the suit, on the face of it, is not maintainable, the fact that
no specific plea was taken or no precise issues were framed is of little consequence.
Therefore, it is open to the parties to raise the plea of maintainability of the suit as a
legal plea without there being a specific plea in the written statement or the issues.
20. Insofar as the Executive Officer's suit is concerned, it is seen that 'Executive
Officer' has been defined under Section 6(2) of the H.R. & C.E. Act. According to this
definition, Executive Officer is a person who is appointed to exercise such powers and
discharge such duties appurtaining to the administration of a religious institution as
are assigned to him by or under the Act or the Rules framed thereunder. 'Trustee' has
been defined under Section 6(22) of the Act as https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis any
person or body in whom the administration of a religious institution is vested.
Section 45 of the Act deals with the appointment and the duties of an Executive
Officer. Sub-section (2) to Section 45 says that the Executive Officer shall exercise
such powers and discharge such duties as may be assigned to him by the
Commissioner. The proviso says that only such powers and duties as appurtaining to
the administration of the properties of the religious institution shall be assigned to
the Executive Officer. The powers and duties of the Executive Officer shall be defined
by the Commissioner. Section 28 of the Act empowers the trustee of every religious
institution to administer its affairs and to apply the funds and properties of the
institution. He shall be entitled to exercise all powers incidental to the provident and
beneficial administration of the religious institution.
21. In this case, the Executive Officer, in his chief-examination as P.W.1, has stated
that for the purpose of filing the suit, he sought permission from the Commissioner
and got the order under Ex.A.12. On a perusal of Ex.A.12 dated 24.6.1970, it is seen
that instructions were issued to the Executive Officer and the Board of Trustees to
obtain legal opinion to enforce the charges mentioned in the settlement deed dated
1.11.1897 executed by one Thiru Venkatachala Gounder and his wife. A copy of these
instructions was issued to the Executive Officer as well as to the Chairman, Board of
Trustees.
The above instructions did not authorise the Executive Officer to file a suit. As a matter of fact, the
instructions were addressed to both the Executive Officer as well as to the Chairman, Board of
Trustees in order to obtain legal opinion https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis in reference to the
enforcement of the settlement deed. Thereafter, the Inspector, H.R. & C.E. Department held an
enquiry on 1.10.1971 on the petition by T.P. Ardhanari Padayachi (the first plaintiff in the
Community's suit). Ex.B.107 is the report of the Inspector dated 24.1.1972 wherein he has stated
that he found on his enquiry, that from the date of the gift/settlement deed dated 1.11.1897, no such
Nandavanam and its performance was conducted. It was further noted that in reference to this
property, there was already an enquiry by the Commissioner on 26.5.1970 and an order dated
24.6.1970 had been passed directing the concerned to take legal opinion. From the above, it is clear
that the Executive Officer is not the authority competent to initiate legal proceedings and that he
had not been assigned with the power of filing a suit. It is only the Board of Trustees in existence atDurgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 7that time which was competent to initiate the legal proceedings. The trustees are not made parties to
the suit and therefore, the finding insofar as the Executive Officer's suit is concerned, that it is filed
without authority has to be upheld."
Therefore, it can be seen that the Division Bench considered that it is the power exercised by the
Executive Officer in filing the suit.
15. It is in this context, by considering Sections 6 & 45 of The Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Act, 1959, when the powers and duties are to be defined by the
Commissioner at the time of appointment of the Executive Officer, it is held that unless the
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis Commissioner expressly authorises the filing of the suit by the
Executive Officer, the suit is not maintainable.
16. It is in this context, the march of law has to be understood when the later Division Bench of this
Court, in the year 2011, in A.N.Kumar Vs. Arulmighu Arunachaleswarar Devasthanam
Thiruvannamali, rep. by its Executive Officer (Asst. Commissioner) Thiruvannamalai and Ors. (cited
supra) while resolving the question as to whether the temple has to resort to eviction proceedings
under Sections 78 and 79 of The Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959
or whether it can file the suit, while deciding that the temple can resort to either of the proceedings,
also held that it is the duty of the Executive Officer to file a suit. It is useful to extract paragraph
No.32 of the said judgment which reads as follows:-
" 32........................The Executive officer, being an Officer appointed by a competent
authority, is duty bound to protect the property of the temple. Therefore, it is
incumbent on him to file a suit and protect the right of the temple."
17. This paradigm shift from 'power' to 'duty' has to be noted. Always the march of law has to be seen
with reference to the social transformation and in tune with societal concerns. It could be seen that
there were times https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis when people were donating their properties to
Temples. Temple properties were not earning great income and quite often Trustees in their
discretion permitted persons to occupy or cultivate the same. Many a times if they default to pay the
meagre rent, still action was not taken considering their economic background or their services to
the temple. Generally people had a sentiment/fear not to exploit the temple property. However, with
the population growth and urbanisation, this sentiment has vanished in thin air and the properties
of the temple, be it residential plots or commercial buildings or agricultural lands are encroached
upon without any guilt and the temple is divested of the income. Thus, the 'power' to file a suit has
transformed into a 'duty' to file a suit. When the law has been laid down that it is the duty of the
Executive Officer to protect the property and it is incumbent upon him to file the suit, then Section
45 can no more be read as requiring an express authorisation to file a suit as the very appointment
enjoins the said duty.
18. The second reason is that under Section 6 (15) of The Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Act, 1959, where under, a person having interest is defined, in which, a
devotee/worshiper will also be having interest and the suit filed by them in case of mismanagementDurgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 8is https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis maintainable. Even in the judgment of a Division Bench of this
Court in Sri Arthanaeeswarar (cited supra), it is held that a suit filed by a devotee in case of
mismanagement would be maintainable. It is in this context, a learned Single Judge of this Court in
Mohammed Rafiq and Ors. vs. Arulmigu Pasupatheeswarar Swamy Koil Avoor (cited supra) held
that when a devotee can set the law in motion, Executive Officer certainly will be entitled to do so. It
is useful to extract paragraph No.15 of the said judgment which reads as follows:-
" 15. There can be no doubt over the ownership of the suit property and the plaintiff is
entitled to recover the possession from the trespasser. In the absence of proof that
the temple land was taken away and assigned to third parties after paying due
compensation to the temple. The Division Bench judgment of this Court, where the
defendants have questioned the locus of the Executive Officer, who has laid the suit at
the inception does not akin to the facts of the case in hand. Any person, who are
interested in the temple, is entitled to initiate law into motion. Further, the Court
itself as parens patriae is bound to protect the interest of idol. In this case, when no
plea was taken regarding locus of the Executive Officer for filing suit for mandatory
injunction and no opportunity given to Executive Officer to show that he, on
authorisation from the Commissioner initiate the legal proceedings, it is to be
presumed that he had been authorised by the Commissioner to initiate proceedings. "
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis This Court is the parens patriae and is therefore has to protect the
properties of the temple. Useful reference in this regard can be made to a judgment of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India in Joint Commissioner, HR&CE, Admn. Deptt. Vs. Jayaraman5. The Court
being the parens patriae in respect of the Temple and its properties, the Executive Officer only sets
the law in motion by filing the suit. Therefore, for all the reasons stated above, the suit filed by the
Executive Officer is maintainable and accordingly, I answer this question.
J. Question No.2 :
19. On a perusal of the records, except Ex.B-4 rental bill book, no accounts have been produced by
the second and the third defendants even before the Court. The third defendant remained ex parte.
The written statement of the second defendant does not even contain any averment that he is
properly maintaining the accounts or the monies, out of the income from the endowment, being
paid to the temple. The first defendant, Mandapam, is held to be a specific endowment of the temple
and once there is mismanagement, the temple is entitled to recover. The only defence which is taken
in the written statement is that an appeal against the order 5 (2006) 1 SCC 257, para No.7
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis refusing to appoint the second defendant's father as Hereditary
Trustee is pending. However, neither in the pleadings nor in the evidence a copy of the said appeal is
produced. No particulars are furnished even during the arguments. Therefore, the second and the
third defendants do not have any defence whatsoever in respect of the mismanagement and
therefore, the plaintiff temple is entitled for the said reliefs and accordingly, I answer this question.
K. Answers to the Issues :Durgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 920. I concur with the findings of the Trial Court in respect of the issue No.1 in the
Original Suit that the suit is maintainable. I concur with the findings of the Trial
Court that the order made in O.A.No.34 of 1995 and O.A.No.37 of 1985 are final. I
answer the issue No.3 in the Original Suit that the plaintiff is entitled for declaration.
I answer the issue No.4 in the Original Suit that the second defendant is the
Hereditary Trustee of the first defendant, endowment. I answer the issue No.5 in the
Original Suit that the plaintiff is also entitled for recovery of possession from the
second defendant. As far as the damages and quantum are concerned, opportunity is
given for the plaintiff to comply by way of an application for
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis quantification of the damages as to be recovered.
Therefore, the judgment and decree of the Trial Court does not need any interference.
L. The Result:
21. In the result, this Appeal Suit in A.S.No.397 of 2010 is dismissed.
However, there shall be no order as to costs. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is
closed.
14.12.2022 Index : yes Speaking order grs To
1. The VI Additional Judge, City Civil Court, Chennai.
2. The Section Officer, V.R.Section, High Court of Madras.
https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judis D.BHARATHA CHAKRAVARTHY, J., grs Pre-Delivery Judgment
in 14.12.2022 https://www.mhc.tn.gov.in/judisDurgai Lakshmi Kalyana Mandapam vs Idols Of Arulmigu Siddhi Ganesar ... on 14 December, 2022
Indian Kanoon - http://indiankanoon.org/doc/158208730/ 10